let's start with that breaking news this
hour very important breaking news
because an official Hamas Source has
told the BBC that it does accept a
proposal for a ceasefire deal in Gaza
now Israel has yet to comment on that
we'll bring you more details on it as
soon as we get
them meanwhile Palestinian civilians
have started leaving parts of Eastern
Rafa in Gaza after Israel told a 100,000
people there to leave the area officials
in Gaza say Israeli air strikes have
targeted parts of Rafa just hours after
that evacuation order was issued
pictures we've received show Thick Smoke
Rising as displaced Palestinians try to
flee Eastern Rafa now those Palestinian
civilians closest to the Israeli border
are being urged to move to what the
Israeli military the IDF calls expanded
humanitarian zones in the almasi and
cunis area
is let's just go back to those live
pictures of people in Gaza in the center
of Gaza actually getting that news that
there looks like Hamas well Hamas have
confirmed that they have accepted the
ceasefire proposals as we say no
confirmation yet of that from Israel so
let's go straight to our security
correspondent Frank Gardner who's in
Jerusalem for us um well Frank Hamas uh
saying that they have accepted these
ceasefire proposals we don't know what
Israel thinks about this yet but what
would that mean
potentially two crucial things here Ben
one are those proposals the same ones
that Israel essentially agreed to the
ones that were on the table during the
weekend at the Ciro talks which were a
40-day pause in the fighting a return of
Palestinians to Northern Gaza to their
homes and an exchange of roughly 33 is
ready hostages out of captivity in Gaza
in return for an undisclosed number of
Palestinians out of Israeli jails those
were broadly the terms that we think
were on the table do we know if this
deal that has been accepted by Hamas is
the same one is it the same terms we
don't know yet second thing is is Israel
going to sign up on this is it going to
sign up to it because if the terms are
different then it's quite possibly going
to get rejected by the Israeli side and
those wonderful celebrations you saw
there in Rafa and Gaza Strip could be
premature of course the Israeli Prime
Minister benjin Netanyahu is under huge
pressure isn't he to get the remaining
hostages out and many people would say
that a ceasefire deal is the best way to
get those hostages
out well that's exactly right I mean the
only time we've seen large numbers of
hostages released out of Gaza have been
with a negotiated deal by Qatar and
Egypt with the support of the United
States and that appears to be what's
going on now because the message and
we're basing all of this on a genuine
one single but genuine posting on uh on
social media by Hamas saying that their
political leader is hania has telephoned
the Kat prime minister Sheikh abdan
Muhammad abdan Alani uh and abas camel
the head of Egyptian intelligence to say
that Hamas accepts the Ceasar proposal
so we don't yet know what the Israeli
reaction is the Israeli media has been
pretty cautious about it saying that if
it's if the terms are different then
it's not going to be acceptable to the
Israeli cabinet and let's just remind
ourselves what the sticking point was at
the weekend why those peace talks those
ceasefire talks collapsed or stalled and
that is that Hamas insisted on an
undertaking by Israel that this would be
a full and final ceasefire in other
words it would be an end to the fighting
and Israel would withdraw Israel said
we're not going to commit to that
because it would leave hamas's
battalions intact and allow them to
regroup and attack us again what
mediators have been saying both during
the weekend and subsequently to Hamas is
look take the 40-day deal you know if
you don't take that nothing's going to
happen the idea is to build on the
40-day deal to make another 40-day Troop
and another one beyond that and
eventually it becomes um a permanent
ceasefire but if you don't make a start
then nothing is going to
happen and just give us an idea of who
exactly is mediating in these various
ceasefire negotiations that we've been
having it's very much Egyptian Le I mean
the cutteries are involved cutter is of
course the home in doar its capital to
the political leadership of Hamas
something that is pretty controversial
because it's a weird situation you've
got Qatar that is home to the largest US
military base in the Middle East at
alade it's also home to what is a the
political wing of a prescribed terrorist
organization prescribed by the US and
many other countries um but it's the
Egyptians that have been driving this
one and it's Egyptian intelligence
remember that Egypt borders Gaza they've
got a vested interest in seeing calm
restored um the last thing they want is
to see the violence spill over their
borders um into the northern Sinai which
has already suffered a lot of violence
from um Isis that's been attacking
Egyptian Army positions uh they there's
no love lost between the Egyptian
government which is very secular and
Hamas which is a religious movement a
political religious movement but the
Egyptians have been driving this they
want very much to see this deal succeed
Ed and that's why hamas's message
mentioned abas camel the head of
Egyptian intelligence who is been who
has been instrumental in trying to get
this deal over the line and Frank just
looking at the timing of this I mean
this this uh acceptance by Hamas of the
ceasefire deal it comes on the same day
that we've had heightened reports that
there could be an imminent Israeli
military offensive ground assault on
Rafa we've had those evacuation orders
dropped by flyers on Palestinian
civilians telling them to get out of
Eastern Rafa ahead of of uh what could
be an imminent Israeli assault do you
think that could be connected to what
Hamas now have agree
to well certainly I think hardliners um
and others in the military here in in
the Israeli establishment will be saying
you see military Pressure Works the
threat of military action has made them
capitulate I'm not sure that's how Hamas
would see it um because after all
yesterday they fired a load of rockets
at the Kim Shalom Crossing Point killing
four Israeli soldiers Israel has been
conducting air strikes in Rafa certainly
the prospect of a major military
operation in Rafa has appalled
International Aid agencies and the US
for that matter so President Biden only
a couple of hours ago held a 30-minute
phone call with prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu the readout of that that was
released to the media was unbelievably
short and uninformative uh most of it
was about Holocaust Remembrance Day one
line in it referring to Rafa saying the
president made clear his views on Rafa
well we know what those views are and it
frankly don't do it the US does not
believe that Israel can undertake a
military operation in a place with 1.4
million people 2third of whom are
already displaced from northern Gaza
without severe harm to those
civilians uh Frank you were saying at
the start that of course we have to wait
and hear and wait and see what Israel's
reaction to this is and we have just
received a report while you've been
talking to us from the Reuters news
agency um quoting an Israeli official
unnamed Israeli official saying that
Hamas have approved uh a quote softened
Egyptian proposal that is not repeat not
acceptable to Israel so the initial and
that is a that's just on the Reuters
news agency but they're quoting an
Israeli official saying that this deal
that Hamas have agreed to is not
acceptable to Israel because it's it's
based on a softened Egyptian
proposal yeah I I that doesn't surprise
me and that's very depressing because um
you know I kind of feared as much
because certainly when the talks
collapsed at the weekend there was still
considerable dist between the Hamas
position and the Israeli
position the Israeli Prime Minister
Netanyahu has been absolutely adamant
that Israel will not commit now or at
any time to an end to hostilities why
because they think that this is
unfinished business and there are four
battalions of Hamas still alive and
intact and they want to finish them off
at the same time they want the hostages
out now those two aims I think are
incompatible with each other the best
way to get hostage is out of captivity
in Gaza is through a deal um but there
are people in the security cabinet and
the war cabinet here in Israel um well
certainly there are hardliners in this
country and in the government who don't
want to see a deal instead they want to
see a hard military push into Rafa that
in some way finishes off Hamas I'm not
sure that that is achievable and it's
certainly not going to get a lot of
hostages out
alive yeah and and just one additional
line from Reuters Frank that I will just
put to you but it just amplifies that
earlier report I was uh reading out from
the Reuters news agency that Israeli
official who's already said that these
proposals are not acceptable to Israel
says the proposal includes quote far
reaching conclusions that Israel does
not agree to that so that does look like
initially at least confirmation that
Israel isn't going to go along with
these uh proposals even if Hamas is
yeah I mean it's almost certainly
concerning the end State because Hamas
is saying look you know it's unrealistic
to give up their key bargaining chip the
hostages um only to find themselves
attacked the very next day now I mean
you know Hamas is a prescribed terrorist
organization they've committed absolute
atrocities in southern uh Israel on
October the 7th but they've been quite
canny militarily and um they are in
quite a strong bargaining position
because they still hold somewhere
upwards of 90 hostages who are thought
to be alive the pressure on prime
minister Netanyahu here is mounting to
get those hostages out every night I
drive past protesters um who are waving
banners saying bring them home do more
make it a priority the protesters and
they numbered tens of thousands a couple
of nights ago in t
they don't believe that the Israeli
government is doing enough to get them
out they don't think it's a priority for
for this government they think this
government's priority is to get tough on
Hamas and fight it and beat it and crush
it into the ground and that the hostages
are a second PRI secondary
priority Frank very good to have you
with us for that instant analysis that's
Frank Gardner our security correspondent
live with the very latest from Jerusalem
on that uh Hass acceptance of ceasefire
proposals but as we've just been hearing
according to the Reuters news agency um
Israel does not accept those proposals
and isn't likely to and Frank Gardner
there just giving us his analysis well